Domaine Scientifique de la DOUA20, Avenue Albert Einstein - 69100 Villeurbanne
Foreign LanguagesForeign Languages
IDENTIFICATION
CODE : HU-3-S2-EC-L-ESP
ECTS : 2
HOURS
Cours : 0h
TD : 26h
TP : 0h
Projet : 0h
Evaluation : 0h
Face à face pédagogique :26h
Travail personnel : 0h
Total : 26h
ASSESMENT METHOD
The  average  is  made  up  of  half(50%)  continuous  assessment(assessments  of  the  5  skillscarried  out  in  class)  and  acommon  exam  (50%  of  theaverage)  which  assesses  WrittenComprehension,  OralComprehension, Grammatical andLexical  Skills  and  WrittenExpression.  This  common  examdoes  not  have  the  value  of  levelvalidation
TEACHING AIDS
Authentic  and/or  didacticdocuments related to the selectedtopics.-  "Pink"  grammar  and  exercisebooklets-  "Yellow"  booklet:  conjugationguides- The CRL
TEACHING LANGUAGE
French
CONTACT
M. Suarez Lopez Gonzalo :gonzalo.suarez-lopez@insa-lyon.fr
AIMS
The  targeted  and  mobilized  skills  are  those  of  both  the  INSA  Humanities  SkillsFramework (specifically skills 3 and 7) and the CEFR.Consistent description of the CEFR skills.http://www.sciencespo-lille.eu/sites/default/files/cecrl.pdf
At the end of the semester, the student will be able to...- Communicate and interact in Spanish, both orally and in writing, adapting to the contextand the interlocutors, from the transmission of simple information to mediation in morecomplex communication situations. (COMMUNICATIONAL COMPETENCY)-  Identify,  understand,  and  utilize  the  cultural  codes  associated  with  the  Spanishlanguage and its speakers in order to adopt appropriate behavior and communication indiverse intercultural contexts. (INTERCULTURAL COMPETENCY)- Understand spoken and written messages in Spanish in communication situationscorresponding  to  the  targeted  proficiency  level,  in  accordance  with  the  CommonEuropean Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).- Produce spoken and written messages in Spanish, effectively utilizing the linguisticresources specific to the targeted proficiency level (CEFR).
CONTENT
The  five  skills  recognized  by  the  Common  European  Framework  of  Reference  forLanguages (CEFR) are practiced and assessed several times throughout the semester/year, ensuring regular practice of the various skills and knowledge acquired.
The themes, grammar, and vocabulary covered in class are adapted to the target level(indicated in the group code) and are at the discretion of the teacher.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Web resources:-  for  listening  comprehension,  grammar,  and  vocabulary  training  (all  levels):  http://www.ver-taal.com/index.htm- grammar and vocabulary exercises (all levels): https://www.espagnolfacile.com/- https://moodle.insa-lyon.fr/course/index.php categoryid=353
PRE-REQUISITES
None. Courses range from beginner to advanced level. Each student will be placed in agroup corresponding to their level, either through a test at the beginning of the year (fornew  students)  or  based  on  their  level  from  the  previous  year  for  students  alreadyattending INSA.