Domaine Scientifique de la DOUA20, Avenue Albert Einstein - 69100 Villeurbanne
Tandem and intercomprehension course S1Tandem and intercomprehension course S1
IDENTIFICATION
CODE : HU-4-S1-EC-L-TAN
ECTS : 2
HOURS
Cours : 0h
TD : 26h
TP : 0h
Projet : 0h
Evaluation : 0h
Face à face pédagogique :26h
Travail personnel : 0h
Total : 26h
ASSESMENT METHOD
Evaluation in TANDEM consists incontinuous  assessment  of  theirpreparation and oral work in class,as well as written work and an oralpresentation.
TEACHING AIDS
-Diverse  authentic  documents,both written and audiovisual
TEACHING LANGUAGE
French
CONTACT
Mme Davila Monica :monica.davila-lozano@insa-lyon.fr
Mme Raymond Camille :camille.raymond@insa-lyon.fr
Mme Rivoire Camille :camille.rivoire@insa-lyon.fr
Mme Vincensini Catherine :catherine.vincensini@insa-lyon.fr
Mme Strelow Isabel :isabel.strelow-antunes@insa-lyon.fr
Mme Fradois Delphine :delphine.fradois@insa-lyon.fr
AIMS
This EC belongs to the UE: HUMANITIES
It contributes to the development of the following transversal skills valued by INSA:CT7: Work in an international, intercultural context 7.1 Communicate in a foreign language 7.2 Decode cultural references in speech, attitudes and behaviors.7.3 Put one's own values, beliefs and behaviors into a cultural perspective.
by allowing the student-engineer to develop and be evaluated on the following learningoutcomes:
THE STUDENT CAN:--talk about themselves and their country--talk about a social phenomenon OR--talk about a cultural phenomenon OR--talk about a scientific phenomenon OR--have a conversation appropriate to the context; communicate in an appropriate manner--give an oral presentation AND/OR write clear expository prose--learn and apply usage and vocabulary discovered in class--understand and apply diverse linguistic and social codes
By the end of the semester, the student will be able to...- Communicate and interact in one or more foreign languages, both orally and in writing,adapting to the context and the interlocutors, from the transmission of simple informationto mediation in more complex communication situations. (Communication skills)- Identify, understand, and utilize the cultural codes associated with their own languageand  those  of  their  interlocutors  in  order  to  adopt  appropriate  behavior  andcommunication in diverse intercultural contexts. (Intercultural skills)- Produce written or oral messages in their native language or in the target language.(Linguistic skills)
CONTENT
The TANDEM modules offer linguistic and cultural exchanges between French-speakingstudents and German-speaking, English-speaking, Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking students in each of the languages.
The  INTERCOMPREHENSION  module  is  all  about  learning  to  understand  nativespeakers of a Romance language different to one's own. Each student speaks theirnative language and learns to understand the others.
The work is carried out by organizing a debate around a controversial subject, by writinga story, by presenting an element belonging to the specific culture, by playing boardgames  ...  in  short,  by  interacting  permanently  and  in  any  form  possible  with  otherstudents fluent in the different working languages. 
Of course, oral comprehension is also at the heart of this course. It is a living, authenticlearning in the spirit of sharing. Everyone has something to learn and to pass on.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
PRE-REQUISITES
FOR THE TANDEMSFor francophone students: .B2 in German, English, Spanish .B1 in Portuguese
For anglophone students: B1 minimum in French
FOR INTERCOMPREHENSIONMust  be  native  speaker  of  a  romance  language  (French,  Spanish,  Catalan,  Italian,Portuguese, Romanian)